New metadata backend (#444)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/pages/prerequisites/prerequisites.adoc

{what_is_apache_url}[Apache] In addition to being a "basic" web server and providing static and dynamic content to end-users, Apache httpd (as well as most other web servers) can also act as a reverse proxy server, also-known-as a "gateway" server.
____

== Filesystems and Shared Storage

Infinite Scale defines drivers for filesystems to store blobs and metadata. The drivers can be configured via the xref:{s-path}/storage-users.adoc[Storage-Users Service Configuration].

=== Backend for Metadata

Starting with Infinte Scale 3.0, metadata is stored as {messagepack}[messagepack] files. Messagepack files have as filetype `.mpk`, contain compressed JSON data, are compact and fast. There is also no limit in metadata stored for one mpk file which makes using messagepack futureproof. Using messagepack allows the use of standard filesystems, see the supported list below.

If you have started to use Infinite Scale before version 3.0, metadata was stored in extended attributes (`xattrs`) and is converted with the upgrade automatically.

=== Available Filesystem Drivers

> The oics filesystem driver::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ocis filesystem driver::
```

When the `ocis` driver is used, blobs and metadata must be on a POSIX-compliant filesystem. This driver decomposes the metadata and persists it in a POSIX filesystem. Blobs are stored on the filesystem as well. This layout makes extensive use of symlinks. A filesystem like xfs or zfs without practical inode size limitations is recommended. A further integration with file systems like CephFS or GPFS is under investigation.
+
NOTE: Ext4 limits the number of bytes that can be used for extended attribute names and their values to the size of a single block (by default 4k). This reduces the number of shares for a single file or folder to roughly 20-30, as grants have to share the available space with other metadata.

The s3ng filesystem driver::

> When the `s3ng` driver is used, blobs reside on a S3 bucket and the metadata will be stored on a POSIX-compliant filesystem which needs to be extra provisioned. As this POSIX-compliant filesystem usually needs to be mounted on several oCIS instances like when deploying with a xref:deployment/container/orchestration/orchestration.adoc[container orchestration], consider using NFS for storing this metadata. This splitting is necessary for performance reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `s3ng` driver is used, blobs reside on a S3 bucket and the metadata will be stored on a POSIX-compliant filesystem which needs to be provisioned. As this POSIX-compliant filesystem usually needs to be mounted on several Infinite Scale instances like when deploying with a xref:deployment/container/orchestration/orchestration.adoc[container orchestration], consider using NFS for storing this metadata. This splitting is necessary for performance reasons.
```
